---
layout: post
title: Day 3
date: '2014-01-30T10:25:59-08:00'
tags:
- dev bootcamp
- week_1
- phase_1
- slow down
tumblr_url: http://mknudsen01.tumblr.com/post/75051124809/day-3
---
It’s already Wednesday! It seems like the days here are long, but the week goes rather quickly.

As of Day 3, the work is piling up. I’m feeling like I don’t have enough time to finish everything that I want to, even though I’ve been devoting the lion’s share of my time to coding.

It’s been making me feel rushed. My blog post yesterday was rather rushed, and I’m not really stoked about how it turned out. My post for today is probably going to feel rushed, as well. I’m going to need to be rushing for pretty much the next 9 weeks if I want to get as much as I can out of this program.

There’s a fine line that I need to find, though. One the one hand, I can keep my head down and work as quickly as I can to get through more work. On the other, I can work very slowly, talking through the lesson with my pair partner and with my teachers. Maybe I could dive a bit deeper on that challenge and then teach my fellow boots who might be having trouble or talk to them about the new things I learned.

I tend to lean towards putting my head down and working and getting as much as I could done, teamwork be damned. I was talking with another boot about it today when I was expressing how behind I feel.

He said that he feels like he’s been hearing that Do you feel behind, or is it just me? question from a number of the boots.

We think that we’re feeling that way because we’re used to an education where you can actually “catch up.” It is possible to finish all of the exercises in your workbook. It is possible to read our textbooks and to make study guides and study them. It’s possible to learn all of the information that is laid out for you in a typical class.

What’s more, you can know if you’ve “learned” that information based on how you do on your assessments—your tests, quizzes, presentations, papers, etc.

At Dev Bootcamp, there aren’t any grades. They provide enough extra resources and challenges for us to be busy for ninety weeks. There’s no way that we can finish it all in the time that we’re here.

But we don’t need to learn everything. We don’t need to learn the exact syntax for a certain method in Ruby. We don’t need to memorize the code for making a linked list (something we made today). It doesn’t matter that we have those things committed to memory. What’s more important is that we understand how to approach the problems. If we get the same or a similar problem and are able to reason through all of the steps that need to happen in order to create a working solution, THEN we’ve learned it. Syntax can be looked up and will come with practice.

The problem I’m running into, then, is that I’m having trouble gauging my progress. Tests allow us to benchmark our mastery. We get to see how much of a topic we know in terms of what our teachers or school administrators think we should know. Grades and tests make it easier because we know how we’re stacking up relative to everyone else.

But how do you measure your progress on understanding the different data structures or sorting methods or Big-O notation? I can no longer just complete a challenge, check it off of my list as I would my homework, and then consider myself done. There’s always a deeper understanding to be attained, and there’s always a way to make the code more elegant or more efficient.

So far, it’s been a struggle. Since I don’t feel that I’m fully mastering anything, I feel that I need to study it more. But we’ve already covered a handful of topics. And we’ve always got suggested readings and homework and challenges. If I sit and think about everything that I want to get done or that needs to get done, anxiety creeps in.

And then shit hits the fan.

My inner voice is saying youneedtofinishyouneedtofinishyou’rerunningoutoftimecomeoncomeoncomeon!”, which makes it impossible to focus on anything. I feel that I need to rush through the work, so I start to get annoyed that my pairing partner doesn’t have that same sense of urgency. They’re just moving at a snail’s pace, and I just get angry. *Why can’t they just leave and let me get my coding done by myself? I’ll go faster if I don’t need to agree on the decisions and coordinate with another person.

AND I stop caring about the lesson itself. All I want to do is get the code done so that can check it off the list and move on to the next thing. I take this fun, interesting, challenging project and make it into something of a menial task that just needs to be completed.

At that point, I’m just cramming. I’m not really learning anything. I’m not thinking about the larger concepts at play. I’m not thinking about why I’m learning what I’m learning. I’m not putting it into context. And if none of that happens, I’m not learning or retaining.

Once I get to that point, what’s the point of even being at Dev Bootcamp? At the end of nine weeks, I’ll check off a bunch of challenges and be able to point to code that I did while I was there, but I won’t remember how to do any of it or why I did any of it. Interviewers aren’t going to give a rat’s ass that I built a program implementing Battleship if I can’t give a basic explanation of a hash.

To solve my problem, I need to let go of not getting every single thing finished. Feeling rushed will not serve me. It’d be better to focus on getting a few things done during the day and getting them done well. Really having fun with the challenge and diving a bit deeper with the challenge until we learn it, understand it, and put it into context.

There’s always the weekend for some of what doesn’t get done.

I’m here with some of the coolest, smartest people I’ve ever met. I can’t forego talking to them and learning from them because I feel I the need to check a few more tasks off of a list. That’s not the point of Dev Bootcamp.

So, tomorrow, I’m going to try to calm the bleep down. I’ll keep you updated on how that goes.
