---
layout: post
title: Day 2
date: '2014-01-29T11:28:32-08:00'
tags:
- dev bootcamp
- phase_1
- week_1
- merge sort
tumblr_url: http://mknudsen01.tumblr.com/post/74949808231/day-2
---
Ooookay, so I thought yesterday was pretty cool, but today was awesome. Superego, yoga and coding.

Superego

Karim came in today as part of our engineering empathy course. I think this is a really cool part of Dev Bootcamp. They focus on the boots as people, not just as coders. Every Tuesday, we spend about an hour and a half talking about ways to grow outside of coding. Dev Bootcamp wants to make our entire beings better as a result of this program, not just to teach us how to make a web application.

Today, we had a talk about the superego. For those of you who may be a little rusty on Freud’s psychoanalytic theory of personality, he believed that our personalities were based on three parts: the id, the ego, and the superego.

The id is our animalistic desires. It basically seeks pleasure all of the time and has no filter. Were it to run amok, we would run around naked, eating candy, trying to get laid, and biting anyone who made us angry.

The ego is our sense of self. Any way that we identify ourselves—I am male, I am Italian, I am heterosexual, I am a boyfriend, I am a son, I am mknudsen01 on tumblr, and so on. However we might identify ourselves is a result of our ego.

The superego is our sense of right and wrong. It’s our guiding voice, telling us what’s okay and what’s not okay. It keeps the id and ego in check so that we are successful or aren’t making idiots out of ourselves.

It’s our inner monologue—what we say to ourselves in our head. Dude, you shouldn’t just steal that guy’s laptop. That’d be wrong.

Hey, maybe put pants on today before you go outside. People didn’t seem to take too kindly to your pasty thighs yesterday.

The problem is that our superegos are kind of getting out of control. They’re being judgmental and mean to us, telling us that we’re stupid or ugly or dumb or boring or incapable.

For example, if we tell a joke and it just falls completely flat, our superego will kick in. Rather than being a nice person and saying Hey, that joke wasn’t great, so maybe don’t tell it again. You’re still a funny person—everyone tells some stinkers in their lives, our superego might be a complete douche and say Good one, dumbass. Why do you even try to tell jokes? This happens all the time. People don’t laugh because you’re NOT FUNNY. Just do everyone a favor and stop talking.

It goes from a matter of “hey, maybe change your behavior a bit” to “You are (insert negative adjective or noun here) because you did that. You’re a loser.”

The superego douchebaggery comes in three forms: attack, comparison, standard.

An attack involves our superego just coming out and saying that we’re stupid or boring or ugly.

A comparison would be comparing ourselves to others. Dude, everyone else here finished all of their work for the day. Why didn’t you? Oh, right, because you’re worse than all of them and don’t deserve to be here.

And a standard would be some arbitrary standard that we impose. You would be so much more attractive if you weighed 10 pounds less. You’re already 30, why don’t you have a cool job yet? You wanted to be here when you were 25, you failure.

So, Karim had us participate in an exercise. We were to take on the persona of our superegos and essentially berate a fellow boot who was pretending to be us. Stand-in Matthew sat down on the floor, and I, as my superego, stood up over him and let “me” have it for two minutes, spewing out all of the bullcrap that my superego feeds me on a regular basis.

I was yelling at another person (who I didn’t really know super well yet) some of my deeper insecurities that I don’t really share with most people. And then we switched positions. It was a very intimate exercise, and things got pretty intense.

But that was the point. Everyone has superegos that just yell or whisper bullshit in our ears all day. Sure, the specifics attacks might be different, but everyone has their own issues.

I think a lot of the time, I walk around thinking that I’m the only one who’s feeling shitty about something, just assuming that everyone else is just happy and healthy and wonderful.

Not so. We’ve all got our own issues and insecurities, and it was awesome to be reminded of that. These fellow boots that I might feel inadequate around (because they’re smarter or cooler or better at socializing or whatever) are all really just people, filled with flaws and issues of self-worth.

It was also great to yell out some of the things that my superego tells me because a lot of it just sounds so stupid to hear out loud. If someone on the street came up to me and said “You know, people have been coding for so much longer than you. You really aren’t ever going to be on their level and can’t possibly make anything people would want to use,” I would want to punch them in the face. Or I would just laugh them off, knowing that they’re wrong.

So, why is it different when it’s just the voice in my head whispering it to me? The point of Karim’s talk was that it isn’t different. It’s all just bologna, which is why we need to make a concerted effort to notice when our superego is attacking us. And when we do notice it, we need to defend against the attack.

Yoga

Part of our DBC program includes a membership to the YMCA on the next block. Every Tuesday and Thursday for our first three weeks, we have yoga classes during part of our lunch breaks.

Our first day today was pretty great. We didn’t really do any difficult stretching or anything. Katy (and that’s pronounced “kay-TEE”) mostly just wanted us to lay down and do some slow movements while really focusing on our breathing. The whole process was rather calming, and Katy is funny teacher with the coolest British accent.

I just know that on long mornings filled with tough coding, the yoga will help us all to calm down and get back to a happy place.

Coding

Now that introductions were out of the way, we were able to do a lot more coding today. I think my favorite thing that we did was work on sorting algorithms. We got a list of about 170,000 words, and we needed to write a program with our partner that would put the list in alphabetical order.

There are a number of different ways for our computers to sort through a list of words or numbers. This site shows a few of them. By clicking on each of the boxes in the top row, you can see how the computer will go about sorting the list. I just got sort of lost in awe looking at how fast each one of the sort methods works.

Each of the sort methods has a different speed based on how many words or numbers it has to sort through. The way that we talk about the speed is with Big-O notation. Basically, Big-O is the absolute worst case for our algorithm—a very large list that has all of the words or numbers in the exact order that will make our algorithm take the longest. This site, if you scroll down to “Sorting,” shows in colors how good each sorting method is. There’s a best case, a worst case, and an average case, and each way of sorting gets a color based on how well it performs in each case. Green ones are faster and red ones are slower.

Quentin (my pairing partner for the day) and I decided to try to implement a merge sort program to sort through our huge list.

A merge sort basically has two rules. The program will receive an array of words or numbers (an array is just a way to type ordered lists in a programming language). First, the merge sort separates all of the numbers or words into n subsets. So, with 10 words, it will separate each word into its own subset until there are 10. Then it will start merging those subsets, comparing the first number in each subset that it’s merging until it combines all of the numbers. For example (and apologies on the spacing. It all looks great when I edit this post, and then tumblr decides to turn it into garbage):


[1,6,4,3,2,5]
[1]   [6]   [4]   [3]   [2]   [5]                                => split into *n* subsets

[1,6]   [3,4]   [2,5]                                            => first merge

[6]   [3,4]  [2,5]                result: [1]                  =>  compares 1 and 3, takes 1

[6]   [4]   [2,5]                  result: [1,3]               => compares 6 and 3, takes 3

[6]          [2,5]                 result: [1,3,4]            => compares 6 and 4, takes 4

               [2,5]                result: [1,3,4,6]         => compare 6 with nothing, takes 6

[1,3,4,6]   [2,5]                                                => moves onto next round of sorting

[3,4,6]      [2,5]               result: [1]                  =>compare 1 and 2, take 1

[3,4,6]      [5]                  result: [1,2]               => compare 3 and 2, take 2

[4,6]         [5]                  result: [1,2,3]            => compare 3 and 5, takes 3

[6]            [5]                  result: [1,2,3,4]         => compare 4 and 5, takes 4

[6]                                  result: [1,2,3,4,5]      => compare 5 and 6, takes 5


                                      result: [1,2,3,4,5,6]   => compare 6 with nothing, takes 6


That’s the basic way this particular sort works.

That’s how we made it, anyway. The really cool part was that it took only 1.8 seconds to sort a list of 170,000 words. It just blew my mind how quickly it worked. Quentin and I were absolutely stoked. I would post the code, but Tumblr wasn’t really being too nice to me, and it was making the code look ridiculous. I’ll do some research when I have a little more time so that I can figure out how to post the code properly.

Chefler

Another thing that happened was that Chefler gave us a free meal. They’re a startup that delivers some healthier meals to us for dinner if we sign up. I had some sweet and sour pork, and it was pretty good. I think I’m going to sign up—it’s cheaper than going out for dinner, it saves time, and I really wouldn’t cook anything tougher than ramen noodles and cereal if left to my own devices for meals.

I felt a lot better overall about today. We all got to solve some problems and teach each other some concepts. I wasn’t worrying about what I was supposed to be doing because I was so engrossed in the problems that we were all working on. It was just awesome. I was there for about 14 hours today, but it flew by. We’ll see what tomorrow brings!
