---
layout: post
title: End of Week 1
date: '2014-02-03T01:47:36-08:00'
tags:
- dev bootcamp
- week_1
- Phase_1
- octopress
tumblr_url: http://mknudsen01.tumblr.com/post/75460603944/end-of-week-1
---
Saturday and Sunday came and went just about as quickly as Monday through Friday. I had a lengthy list of things that I wanted to complete—programs to redo, programs to complete for the first time, books to read, and topics to study—buuuut most of the things did not get done.

During the week, the days were about 14 hours long, and I really didn’t start getting sick of coding until about half an hour before I left (which is how I knew it was about time to hit the ol’ dusty trail). But something about the weekend was just a bit rough.

There were just far fewer effective hours yesterday and today. Even though it’s all fun to do, my mind wasn’t really happy just to sit and read or to sit and work on some code. I wanted to get outside and spend some time away from DBC. Spending 10+ hours in the same building for 7 days a week for nine weeks would make me grow to hate the place.

I don’t want to hate DBC. So, while I was there, I didn’t really work as hard. There was a lot of socializing and surfing the web instead of dedicated Ruby study.

Before we went, though, the apartment went to La Boulange for breakfast. We got there around 10:30 or 11. I had a ham and potato tart, a cheese Danish, and an espresso. IT WAS SO GOOD.

And we all just sat there for about an hour, chatting. It was great. Definitely a great way to relax for a bit in between the coding sessions.

I spent about four hours working on Sudoku when I got to DBC. In total, I’ve put in probably around 15 hours or so trying to get it to work. Didn’t get it working, though. I was able to implement some guessing, so my program is able to solve some of the easier puzzles that involve guessing. Once it gets to the harder ones that involve multiple guesses on guesses, though, something breaks. I was banging my head on that problem for about two hours, and it pretty much drained my focus for the rest of the day.

So far, Hunter was the only one of the boots to get it all working. Quentin was on the computer next to me for about six hours Saturday night, trying to get it working, too. Sadly, he was ultimately unsuccessful.

I did manage to get through a couple of Ruby books, though I’m not sure how much I’ve retained. Sherif encouraged us not to read a book from cover to cover on our first run through. Rather, he suggested that we scan the book. Look through the table of contents, find some things that sound interesting or unfamiliar and then go read them first. If we do that, we can skip over reading a lot of the same topics we’ve read and learned about before.

It was kind of awesome to read through the books because I generally knew what most of the chapters were talking about. I understood a good number of the topics and syntax, which was all very reassuring. When I first started with Ruby, I tried to read one of those books from cover to cover. It took me hours to understand the code examples and to get a slight grasp on any of what was being discussed.

It’s hard to gauge one’s learning. It’s tough to know when something’s been committed to memory or when you truly understand it. And I’ve been feeling that I still know nothing about Ruby because I’ve been having trouble with a lot of the topics and with building the programs.

I tend to underestimate my learning and abilities, so I was surprised and super stoked that I was familiar with a good chunk of the books already. It was great that over the last six months or so, while I’ve been trying to learn Ruby and how to code, I actually have been learning a great deal.

That said, I know that I’ve still barely scratched the surface of Ruby, and I’ll definitely need to do more reading and practice for years to come. But I’m so excited at how much I’ve already learned in week 1, and I know that the amount of learning is only going to ramp up in the following weeks.

On Sunday, I was probably even less productive. I woke up at around 9 and didn’t really get moving until 10:30. I did some laundry and made a Trader Joe’s trip with Quentin, Armando and Phil. Lunch is somewhat difficult at DBC, as I don’t really have a lot of time to prepare a lunch for myself in the mornings. Luckily, we’ve got our own bins for dry food storage and plenty of refrigerator space, so now I’ve got some protein powder, some Clif bars, some yogurt, and sandwich ingredients (bread, cheese, turkey).

I was only at DBC for about two and a half hours, since the Super Bowl was happening and we all wanted to watch. In those hours, though, Harry taught me how to use Octopress and host it on Github.

Octopress is a blogging platform for developers in that it allows for code to be displayed properly. Tumblr kind of sucks hard about displaying code in an aesthetically-pleasing manner. I mean, Tumblr’s audience isn’t really coders, so it’s understandable that code display isn’t really a priority. But Octopress will fix that. Code is displayed in the way that I want it to be, and it’s free to host pages on Github.

I’m thinking that I’ll post some of the more technical things that I learn on this Github page, then. Typically, they’ll involve code examples, and I want to separate my thoughts on the experience from my technical learnings for right now, anyway. I’ve not fully gotten the new blog to look how I want it to yet, but I’ll hopefully be getting it all set up this week.

Anyway, the Super Bowl happened, and then I tried to fill in some RegEx knowledge gaps. After a bit of that, I started writing this post! And now it’s bed time!

One down, eight to go.
