---
layout: post
title: End of Week 2
date: '2014-02-09T22:36:04-08:00'
tags:
- Phase 1
- Week 2
- dev bootcamp
- hackathon
tumblr_url: http://mknudsen01.tumblr.com/post/76185464637/end-of-week-2
---
This weekend had a pretty marked high and low.

The high? Saturday. Yesterday was the first DBC hackathon that allowed current students to participate. I was hesitant to participate. The event  was schedule to go from 9am to about 11pm. That’s a long time to be coding, especially when I felt that I had about fifty hours of studying to be doing.

We would be on teams with coaches and DBC alums, as boots in Week 2. While we might know more about Ruby than someone who’s never been on a computer before, we still kind of suck way hard at Ruby. We were going to hop on teams of people who didn’t even really like Ruby—a lot of the coaches and alums favor Javascript.

So, we the noobs were going to hop onto teams of people who all were waaaay better at coding. We felt as though we weren’t going to be able to contribute anything at all—the good kids would be making their app while we sat idly by, contributing next to nothing for thirteen hours.

But Sherif and the coaches were all wildly optimistic and convinced a lot of us to go.

And I’m sure glad they did.

I was on a team with Armando, Johnny, Natalie, and Salar. First off, they just had me laughing all day. Salar and Natalie, the alums on the team, were close buddies, so they kept the day fun.

Second, our project was a lot of fun. We worked on an application that would solve a dynamic connectivity problem. You really don’t need to watch that video, as it’s way dry. Basically, we wanted to create a grid, randomly connect some of the points, and then check if two points far away from each other on the grid are connected. The application would show all of the paths that the computer tried to take, and it was gonna look pretty sweet if we would have gotten it working all the way. We got it nearly there, and the current product looks cool, but it’s not working completely. Watermelons!

So, for thirteen hours, we were working on this project (although we took a lot of breaks). I got to learn about Javascript and closures and was actually involved in the board creation and the algorithm recursion, so I did get to contribute.

The coolest part of the event was the presentations, though. It was just awesome to see what these teams could build in half a day. And a lot of the teams had leaders who were Phase 2 boots—just three weeks ahead of me! Soon, I’ll be using APIs to graphically represent Bitcoin transaction history or to show the location of everyone in the world who has the same name as me or to create a game of guessing which of two real buildings is taller.

Ah! There’s so much that can be built! And afterwards, there was a bit of a party. The coaches overestimated the beer consumption of the participants throughout the day, so after the presentations, they told everyone to drink more so that the beer wasn’t wasted.

And drink more nearly everyone did. Then we all just got to hang out and chat. Usually, when I hang around people who are more knowledgeable than me or are older than me, I tend to freak out. I tend to discount my opinions and refrain from speaking much because the older, wiser people should do all the talking.

Not so at the hackathon. When you’re all just standing around, drinking beer, it kind of gets you to remember that they’re all just people. Plus, when you see some of them do keg stands, it’s a pretty not-so-subtle reminder that there’s no reason to feel intimidated by them.

Yeah, they’re farther along than me in years or in terms of programming experience, but they’re still just people who like to drink beer and have a good time. That’s all any of us are. Everyone wants to connect. Everyone likes to smile and laugh. Everyone likes to feel good.

It was a great time, and I’m super glad I decided to go.

Buuuut that leads to the low of the week: Sunday! All of the piles of work I neglected on Saturday kind of needed to get done today and it totally didn’t! So there’s been a guilt gnawing at me all day telling me that I’m too far behind and that I’m never going to catch up and that I’m going to fall flat on my face and that I’ll never amount to anything.

But I’ll get over it because hackathon was still totally worth it.
